Let's jump into our project and
start implementing this.
So where we're gonna start is in
the Types folder, we're gonna go into.
I'm going to close server for now.
We're in packages types source.
We've got a folder here
called entities and
we've got a folder here
called value Objects.
So I think we have a temperature
value-object to implement here, and
let's start there.
I'm going to create a new file.
Let me close some of this stuff,
which we'll pull up later.
You can leave those tabs open because
those are files we're going to need to
touch temperature.
And I'm just going to follow
the convention here because we're going to
have another temperature
ts that exists elsewhere.
Temperature type ts and let's start
with copying and pasting some code
from an existing value object- [CROSSTALK]
>> Male Speaker 1: Should we
switch branch, or
what branch should we be on?
>> Mike North: You should be on
the ddd-start branch, ddd-start.
>> Mike North: I'll make sure that we keep
that where it is even as this project
evolves.
So we've got a temperature.type here.
I'm going to start by grabbing this
distance type because it's kind of got
some interesting stuff in it and I just
want to get a nice little starting point.
I'll just grab this because a lot of
these will end up looking the same.
So we're importing Zod,
this library for defining schemas,
and we're going to want
a temperature unit schema.
And let's just focus on Celsius and
Fahrenheit, just C and F.
And this is kind of our
source of truth for
what it means to be a temperature unit.
But this isn't a typescript type.
Not going to risk spelling that.
You can see temperature unit
schema refers to a value,
but I'm trying to use it as a type.
So how do we get the type
out of this Z infer?
Just like this.
So we've got a TemperatureUnit.
And look at this down here.
This is what we want.
So this lets you define a Zod schema and
extract the TypeScript
type that matches it.
Why is this so important?
This ensures that your compile time,
type checking and your runtime validation
of objects that sort of flow through
the schema are very well aligned.
It's useful to have a source of truth
where both things originate
from the same structure.
We'll export this as a symbol so
other parts of our code base can use it.
Yes.
Question from online.
>> Male Speaker 1: Why are we adding
validation logic inside the type.ts file?
>> Mike North: That's a good question.
Maybe I should have called this common or
core.
If you look at other modules in this file,
this is a module that
contains the structures of the data
that we'll be working with.
But this does not include
just pure type information.
There are some type guards here.
This is checking to see if
something is a valid distance unit.
And we may have similar things.
So perhaps a poor name of the package on
my part, but you can think of this as
conceptually representing
the shapes of the value objects,
the shapes of the entities, the shapes
of the request and response shapes,
like the HTTP request
response shape pairs.
But we have a schema here that's
not just pure type information.
And we may have type guards that make
sense to put in the closest place we
can put them with the objects that they
relate to, the shapes they relate to.
So we've exported the schema because
that's going to be useful for
whoever's using this to
do runtime validations.
We'll export the type, but
this is just the C and the F, right?
It's just the unit.
So we're going to need just
to prove that this works.
Now, temperature unit, like,
the only error we're getting
is this is an unused variable.
So this is the type that we can
kind of carry forward in our code.
We're going to do something very similar
with the monthly temperature range, but
we're going to create that
as a different file here.
So I'm just going to format this
really quickly and hit save.
And we're going to create an entity now,
or the shape of the entity at least.
So I'm going to create a new
file in this Entities folder.
So you're in the Types package,
source entities, new file, and
monthly temperature range type ts.
You can name it whatever you like,
but name it like I did and
your code will stay in sync.
We'll need Zod just as before, and
here we're defining our schema,
and this is going to be an object type.
Like conceptually,
what we want is something
that kind of looks like this,
something like that.
So we're gonna look at this example and
let's see how we can articulate that here.
Question from the chat.
>> Male Speaker 1: Why does it make sense
for a temperature range to have an id?
It seems more like an attribute
of the actual entity.
>> Mike North: That's a good question.
If we look back here,
going back to this discussion,
we could have said we have a temperature
range that's a value object.
And you can think of this as just
the concept of Having a min and a max, and
maybe we find multiple uses for
temperature range in the future.
At this point, I think it's.
It could go either way where we
either say we're kind of embedding
this concept of a temperature range
with this concept of a month,
a monthly piece of temperature
data with a low and a high.
We can always tease that
out later if we need to.
But really this just comes down to whether
you want to make the choice to tease
that abstraction out right from the start,
or
whether you want to see it emerge as
something like a temperature range.
Emerge as something that's useful beyond
this monthly temperature data, and
we'll see how that goes.
Like, we still have a choice to evolve
this in the future because ultimately
we're going to have this API contract.
We create like a request and response
shape so we can internally start to model
this as a temperature range and then
have like a month that embeds a range.
Like, we could totally set up
our data model that way, but
preserve the existing API
contract if we had to.
As we're defining our schema,
we're going to start with Z object and
that all we're doing is this part here.
This shape starts with being an object.
We've got an id, which is a string.
We've got a month, which is a.
We could do a number, but
Zod also lets us do an integer.
Remember, there's runtime
validation that happens here.
We can actually like
as we check this data.
This is a constraint that goes beyond just
the number type that exists in JavaScript.
Then we've got the temperatures min and
max.
What we're going to do here is
use the temperature schema,
which I think we forgot
to do a piece here,
but we want the temperature schema now.
We never finished our work on the previous
file, so now's a good time to finish it.
This is what we want.
So all we have is temperature unit here.
Sorry to switch back and
forth a little bit.
We can finish and say the concept of
a temperature is it
starts with an object and
it's got a value, which is a number, and
it's got a unit,
which is a temperature unit.
And you can point right to
the schema that we just defined for
sort of the C or the F.
Then similarly, we can just copy
the same thing that we used before,
but instead of temperature unit,
it's just temperature.
So now we have the unit and
then we're wrapping it in this object.
So it's the value and
the unit and in both Cases,
we export both the schema and the type.
So when we go back to our
monthly temperature record now,
this will resolve and
we'll use it for the min and
the max with a comma and export it and
then finally get the type.
There we go.
If we look at this,
there's our monthly temperature range.
Let me get rid of the terminal so
everyone can see.
That's the structure that we came up with.
We have an id, we have the number of
the month, and then we have the min and
the max.
Yes.
>> Male Speaker 2: Should we limit month
to be 1 through 12?
>> Mike North: Good point.
Yeah, does it make sense
to have month be -16?
Probably not.
And Zod lets us do this.
We can say min is.
What should we use here,
1 through 12 or 0 through 11?
>> Male Speaker 3: Zero.
>> Male Speaker 4: Zero.
>> Mike North: Let's do 0 through 11.
Why do we want to use 0 through 11?
>> Male Speaker 3: JavaScript,
I think that's how it is.
>> Mike North: It's gonna line up really
well with the date object, right?
We can just grab, like get the month
number and it should work.
So there you go.
So now when we use this to validate data,
we can ensure that it is an integer.
Here's the min, here's the max.
And you can even add
things like a description.
No, is it describe or description?
Yes, there's the description.
And this will like when there are error
messages or if you use this to generate
a JSON schema of some sort, these will be
like what is applied on the tooltips as
you're sort of hovering over a file
that's conforming to the schema.
So we have our types,
we have to handle this piece here.
The way we'll do that is
we'll say monthly temps,
monthly temperature range schema.
And we don't want just one,
we want an array.
If we were to do this,
we'd get an error because that's just
treating it like it's type information.
We want a Z array and
that is the member type of the array.
And so now if we were to look at what
this location type ends up being like,
you can see it sort of embeds all
of this nice information here.
So we've got the location,
the monthly temps, the min and the max.
We're really articulating
a reasonable structure here for
how we think about these temperatures.
>> Male Speaker 2: Mike, wouldn't we want
to put a location ID on that monthly
temperature range schema?
>> Mike North: Yeah,
that's a good question.
We could do it both ways.
In fact, tell me how you think about.
>> Male Speaker 2: Well,
you're gonna store it in a table.
And so
each of those would have one location.
And then when you get the locations,
you resolve from the other table.
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Male Speaker 2: You're not gonna store
an array of IDs on the location table for
monthly temperature ranges.
You're gonna resolve
that from the database.
>> Mike North: That's a great point.
So we could either say the location schema
embeds the monthly temperatures, or
we could say, well, wait a minute,
those monthly temperatures,
they're entities and we want sort
of the belongs to relationship.
We want the monthly temperature
to belong to a location.
And we can totally do that.
In fact,
I think that's a better way to do that.
Like just looking at the UI
we're trying to provide here,
ultimately we wanna get this working.
We want to have a list of
locations that pops up and
we don't need to pass all those
temperature ranges up to the ui.
So if this is part of like something
that we seek to embed in an API
contract of some sort,
that's kind of unnecessary to include.
So the other way to do this
is to go back to monthly
temperature range schema and
say something like that.
And now we can kind of like
behind the scenes find those.
This never really ends up
being exposed to our API.
So this is more of sort
of a backend concept.
This would let us query by location and
sort them by month.
And then we have the points on our line.
That's great.
>> Mike North: So there you go.
So we've created a little bit of a soft
edge on that relationship there,
where we know that this has
to be a valid location id.
>> Mike North: And then location
type just ends up being this, right?
Great for a dropdown.